.TH TLM 1
.SH NAME
tlm \- terminal LLM helper for Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tlm
.RI [ options ]
.I command
.RI [ args ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tlm
asks LLM providers, proposes file writes, and plans shell commands with interactive confirmation.
.PP
Run
.B tlm
with no arguments to print help. A natural question such as
.B "tlm which version of ubuntu and what cpu am i using"
is sent to the model like
.BR "tlm ask" .
Replies are rendered with Rich (markdown). The model may request read-only
diagnostics via fenced
.B tlm-exec
JSON argv blocks; each command is shown for approval before
.BR "subprocess.run" .
Use
.B \-\-no-tools
to disable that loop.
With
.B web_enabled
in
.I config.toml
and the Lightpanda binary, the model may request web fetches via fenced
.B tlm-web
JSON blocks; use
.B \-\-no-web
to disable that loop.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B tlm "?" ...
Ask the model (same as
.BR "tlm ask" ).
.TP
.B tlm ask
Ask with flags
.B \-\-session
.BR \-\-provider ,
.BR \-\-new ,
.BR \-\-last ,
.BR \-\-budget ,
.BR \-\-no-tools ,
.B \-\-no-web .
.TP
.B tlm write
Generate files under
.B \-\-dir
with preview and confirmation.
.TP
.B tlm do
Plan argv-based commands; confirm before
.BR subprocess.run .
.TP
.B tlm init
Create XDG config/data/state directories and a default
.I config.toml
if none exists.
.TP
.B tlm config
Interactive terminal settings editor.
.TP
.B tlm config gui
Open the Tk configuration UI (same as
.BR "tlm gui" ).
.TP
.B tlm gui
Open the Tk configuration UI.
.TP
.B tlm sessions
List, show, delete, or rename JSON sessions.
.TP
.B tlm providers
Show provider ids, key presence, and model.
.TP
.B tlm usage
Summarize JSONL request logs.
.TP
.B tlm completion
Emit shell completion for bash, zsh, or fish.
.TP
.B tlm paths
Show freelist paths from
.I permissions.toml
(global, project, escape grants).
.TP
.B tlm allow
Add a freelist path (RW or
.BR \-\-read\-only ).
.TP
.B tlm unallow
Remove a path from freelist or escape grants.
.TP
.B tlm config migrate-keys
Move API keys from
.I config.toml
to the OS keyring (requires optional
.B secure
extra).
.SH FILES
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/tlm/config.toml
.br
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/tlm/permissions.toml
.br
.I $XDG_DATA_HOME/tlm/sessions/
.br
.I $XDG_STATE_HOME/tlm/requests.jsonl
